Hello and welcome to the exam cram for Section Six.
So let's start with AWS Route 53. Route 53 offers the domain registry DNS resolution and
health checking functions.
It's located alongside all edge locations around the world.
And when you register a domain with Route 53 it becomes the authoritative DNS server for that
domain and creates a public hosted zone and we've seen that if you actually created or registered your
own domain or watched me doing it earlier in the course you can transfer domains to Route 53 as
long as the top level domain name is supported you can transfer domain from Route 53 to another
registrar if you need to by contacting AWS support and you can transfer a domain to another account
in AWS but it doesn't migrate the hosting zone by default it's possible to have the domain registered
in one IWC account and the host its own and another one.
Now you've also got private DNS which is Route 53 feature that lets you create an informative
DNS server within your V.P. seas without exposing any of your DNS records to the public Internet.
You can use the IWC management console or API to register domain names a hosted zone is the collection
of records so the records such as your records your aliases you'll see names and so on for a specific
domain hosted its own is essentially similar to a traditional DNS zone file so it's a collection
of records that are managed together.
There are two types of zones.
We just mentioned this before.
You've got the public zone and the private zone for private zones.
You must set the VPC settings to true that is enabled DNS hostname and enabled DNS support.
You also have to create a DHCP option set.
So that's the dynamic Host Configuration Protocol and it's what will assign IP addresses to your instances.
You have to make sure you have the DNS entries specified. Route 53 does Health checking and this checks
the instance by connects him to it and it can connect to endpoints the status of other health checks
and the status of the cloud.
Watch along endpoints can be an IP address or a domain name.
Now you don't need to remember all these records but just understand that rule 53 supports lots of the
standard records that you're probably familiar with the CNAME and Alias are definitely the ones that
we need to concentrate on for the solutions architect's exam.
I'll give you a bit more detail about those shortly.
So the alias record is round 53 specific.
It's pointed at the DNS name of a service and this is how we compare it to a CNAME.
So a CNAME is a canonical name so that means it maps one domain name to another domain name not to
an IP address.
An alias is similar differences are firstly Route 53 doesn't charge for alias queries you can create
them at the zone apex.
So if you took Amazon.com. Amazon.com is the zone APEX it's the top level domain for Amazon.
You can't do that with CNAMEs.
That's a key difference.
The alias records can only point to AWS sources such as cloudfront distributions, elastic beanstalk
environments, load balancers, S3 Buckets that are configured as static web sites or another record
in the same hosted zone.
So these are the route 53 routing policies.
We're going to go through these now.
So remember you got the simple failleover, geo-location, geo-proximity, latency, multivalue answer and weighted.
And so let's have a look at these and a bit more detail.
The simple is where you map an A record to an IP address.
So if you have multiple IP addresses associated with any record it does round robin so it just rotates
between them doesn't support health checks.
You think of failover.
So this is where you have a primary and a secondary IP address is associated with a health check.
Use it for active passive scenarios so traffic gets sent to the active IP address until it fails its
health check.
Then it assumes that the instance is down and sends the traffic to the passive IP address and you can
use that with ALBs as well.
Geo location is for catering to different users in different countries in different languages and it
contains users within a particular geography and offers them a customized version of the workload.
So you might have a customized version of your website and what Ralph 53 is doing is just directing
people there based on the location that they're in.
So this is just a bit more about some of the use cases that you can use for localizing content protecting
distribution rights as well and even spreading load between regions.
If you have multiple records for overlapping regions Route 53 routes to the smallest geographic
region then got geo proximity.
This is used for routing traffic based on the location of resources and optionally shifting traffic
from resources in one location to another.
Then we have latenct based routing.
This is where AWS maintains a database of latency from different parts of the world.
So essentially they're saying if you're closer and therefore have lower latency it will send you to
that IP address or that application instance to try and improve performance for users.
We then have multivalue answer.
This is where you can respond to a DNS query with up to eight records selected at random so you can
use that as a kind of load balancer weights it is similar to simple but you specify a weight for IP addresses
so that you can try and direct more traffic to one record rather than another record then have something
called traffic flow in Route 53 which is a global traffic management service.
You can create policies around complex routing configurations for resources using different types of
routing policy.
So this is something that you might want to use for creating more complex scenarios where you have to
not just use a single routing policy but you might take into account multiple routing policy scenarios
such as adding a backup page in history for a Web site building sophisticated routing policies that
consider the users geographic location as well as proximity to an AWS region and the health of an endpoint.
We have Route 53 Resolver.
We saw this in the labs as well.
It's a set of features to enable bi directional querying between on premises and AWS over private
connections.
So you can use this for enabling DNS resolution for hybrid clouds.
You have endpoints in Route 53 resolve on the inbound query capability provided by Route 53
Resolver endpoints allows DNS queries that originate on premises to resolve AWS hosted domains.
So you have to establish connectivity between your on premises DNS and AWS through direct connect or
virtual private network and the endpoints are configured for IP address assignment in each subnet for
which you would like to provide a resolve.
So we saw this.
You can create those endpoints in different subnets.
We did this in the lab and it means to the client in a corporate data sense a can query a DNS server
in their datacenter and it will realize that the records that you're trying to find out about are actually
located in Route 53.
So it goes into the resolver endpoint which forwards it to Route 53.
We then have the conditional forwarding rules so this is outbound DNS queries enabled for a conditional
forwarding rules domains hosted within your own premises DNS infrastructure can be configured as forwarding
rules.
In Route 53 we resolve it.
So let's just jump straight into here because it's obviously easier in this case to look at a diagram.
So your EC2 instance is configured to talk to Route 53
But in this case it's the other way round.
So this time we want to query something that's a record in a DNS server in the corporate data.
So Route 53 users resolve to forward that traffic.
Lastly we have AWS Global Accelerator.
This is something which is a fairly new service and is only really applicable if you're doing the
SAA-C02 version of the exam as it's a service which is now definitely going to be tested on in the new
exam.
What Global Accelerator does is provides availability and performance of applications with local or
global users.
Now what that really means is it provides static IP addresses and these are a fixed entry point to application
endpoints in single all multiple AWS regions and those can be ALBs, network load balancers, or EC2
instances.
So think of Global Accelerator as a way that you can have two static IP addresses and those can direct
traffic to resource endpoints in multiple regions and it will choose the region that's closest or use
the weightings that you assign to choose which region to send the traffic.
And it does so using edge locations and then the global network so actually uses the AWS global network
and this optimizes the path from users to applications.
And it definitely means that there's going to be a lot lower latency than using the internet. Global
accelerator uses health checks and it can respond to failures and redirect traffic in less than a minute.
So it's using static any cost IP addresses so you get two of those and it doesn't matter where your
users are in the world they only need to use those two IP addresses and they'll be connected to the
closest region or the region which you want to direct most traffic to.
As I mentioned before it uses edge locations and the addresses are associated to regional AWS resources
or endpoints.
Global accelerators IP addresses are the front-end interface for applications of so you can use Route 53
to resolve those IP addresses as well but then you don't need to change those IP addresses where
you fail over your traffic it does intelligent traffic distribution and targeting.
As I mentioned before can be EC2 load balancers both ALB and NLB.